A credit card is one of the important entities in the financial service through which the online transaction can be made by users. The credit card can be issued to anyone but the user should need to enlist their personal and financial details to the issuing authority. As the user needs to provides their financial details such as bank name, account number etc. the things can be proven as vulnerable. This is because of cybercriminals who use to watch the scenario by penetrating the bank network and stealing sensitive data and documents from there. While stealing sensitive and confidential information from the user account, all the underlying entities such as credit card numbers or debit card numbers etc. are accessed. Cybercriminals use those credit cards in favour of their personal transaction unauthorisedly or sell the information to the darknet. When the same user will go to the marketplace and purchases goods using the same credit card, they may face the problem as the credit is already hacked. Thus, the detection of fraudulent activities in credit cards is one of the essential issues in the financial sector. In this project, credit card fraud has been detected using a data science algorithm. In this context, the data has been selected that contains 1000 records of the credit card enlisted customers. The data science algorithms such as Random Forest Classifier, Logistic Regression, Decision Tree Classifier, K-Nearest Neighbor, Ridge Classifier, Support Vector Machine, Neural Network have been sleeted and applied. Finally, the highest accuracy has been achieved to detect fraudulent activities in credit cards using Neural Network Classifier with 82% accuracy.
